# 2020-04-14

## Proposed Agenda
* Introduction of the attendees;
* Discussion of the goals of this CG;
* Sharing use cases and pain points;
* Discussing and prioritizing the language and devtools features, see below;
* Discussing and prioritizing AssemblyScript libraries

## Notes

Re: Passing complex types across the boundary.
* Near
* Polkadot uses their own binary serializer codec;
* Cosmos can only pass binary data right now. Using JSON to serialize messages in their actor-framework;
* Fastly -- very standardized API, because it is request/response format;
* Shopify -- write directly into object stored in AssemblyScript memory. They use AssemblyScript compiler hooks to generate schema;

Re: Schema
* Near -- we can expose the way to define walkers
* Parity -- manually writes the schema. Paused the work on the schema because of the work on EVM -> Wasm integration;

Re: Closures
* Fastly wants closures;

Re: Libraries
* Fastly -- MOAR libraries;
* Near -- needs some analog of AssemblyScript-specific npm, see pika-pkg. Near cares about as-pect, serialization libraries, crypto libraries, bignum-as;
* Shopify -- as-pect. If they move to serialization approach they might need serialization libraries. In the future, math might become useful;
* Cosm -- hex, base64 encoding libraries. They actually have implementations. Near and Cosm to reconcile implementation. https://github.com/AssemblyScript/node/blob/master/assembly/buffer/index.ts#L318
https://github.com/AssemblyScript/node/pull/23 Try to repurpose it.
* Web3 foundation would be interested to sponsor/grant AS crypto libraries. Stefanie to ask Web3 what crypto libs they need.

Re: Common programming practices
* Near -- hacking null pointer checking, maybe put it somewhere so that other people can use it.

Re: Linting
* Reconcile effort on AS linting rules with Shopify, AS core team, and Near.

### Action items

* Linting
* hex/base64 libs
* Compare the performance of passing complex types through serialier and by writting directly into memory.
* Decide where to keep this repo, create calendar.

### Language and devtools features
Kudos to @bowenwang1996 for coming up with the original list.
* Linting
  * Currently rely on typescript linters/compiler errors in IDEs
  * Work Items:
    * Implement 
  * Shopify is working on language server for AS. AS core team has soem AS rules for VSCode.
  * Interested: Shopify, Near, Parity.
  * Who’s working on it: Shopify, AS core team.
* Interfaces and virtual functions 
  * Status: In progress
  * Work Items:
    * Define the features of interface/virtual functions that should be supported
    * Figure out the best way to implement virtual functions
    * Related issue: https://github.com/AssemblyScript/assemblyscript/issues/693
    * Relate PR: https://github.com/AssemblyScript/assemblyscript/pull/862 https://github.com/AssemblyScript/assemblyscript/pull/1208
  * Who’s working on it: @willemneal, @dcodeIO, @MaxGraey
  * In a week can have MVP. There is some difficulty with fields because there is no GC on them because they are just pointers to memory. Fields need to be backed by property-like functionality.
  * Interested: Near, Parity.
* Closure
  * Status: To do
  * Work Items:
    * Figure out the best way to implement closures (seems like we agreed on using anonymous class)
  * Who’s working on it: @DuncanUszkay1
  * Interested: Near, (Parity did not need it yet).
* Iterators
  * Status: Have an old example, but will improve once interfaces are supported.
  * Work Items:
    * Implement iterators that follow the same pattern as typescript
  * Who’s working on it: @willemneal
  * Interested: Near
* ===
  * Status: 
  * Notes: Currently == and === behavior is different, which makes it different from TS. Depends on a Binaryen PR;
  * Interested: Fastly had some problems with it. Most of the devs interested in it, because it allows to match TS experience. (Parity did not need it yet). (Near did not receive any feedback on this issue either. Null checking requires some hacking).
* Ad-hoc polymorphism
  * Status: Max has some ideas how to implement it, but no one is working on it.
  * Work Items:
    * Figure out how to overload constructors and methods on the same name
  * Who’s working on it: No one
* Stabilization
  * Status: In progress
  * Work Items:
    * Stabilize type resolution
    * Make sure there is no unexpected compiler errors
    * Make sure that the standard library works well (for example it should resemble typescript closely)
  * Who’s working on it: @dcodeIO, @MaxGraey
  * Note: People were hitting assertions where should be diagnostics. Daniel has done some of it.
* Miscellaneous (these are of lower priorities in my opinion)
  * Status: To do
  * Work Items:
    * Implement Date that is similar to typescript
    * Stack trace support
    * Regex support
  * Who’s working on it: No one

### AssemblyScript Libraries

* [as-pect](https://github.com/jtenner/as-pect) -- testing library;
* [JSON encoder/decoder](https://github.com/nearprotocol/assemblyscript-json);
* [BSON encoder/decoder](https://github.com/nearprotocol/assemblyscript-bson);
* [RLP encoder/decoder](https://github.com/nearprotocol/assemblyscript-rlp).

Other: https://docs.assemblyscript.org/community/built-with-assemblyscript#libraries


